---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

### Last Week

#### What I learned

 I learned many things about open source software including what HFOSS is, what a license is, and the fact that there are different types of licenses. I learned about the history of open source software and the fact that open source can be used as a successful business model like in the case of Red Hat. I became aware of the fact that a lot of the software I use daily or in class is open source such as Jupyter, OpenCV, and the Mozilla Firefox browser. I also learned about the fact that companies like Google put a lot of resources into open source projects, make it a point to interact with the open source community, and have internal versions of software based on open source software.

Most importantly, I learned how to identify what projects are good for beginners and how to interact with the open source community. Mailing lists, slack channels, gitter chats, and IRC channels are invaluable. It is also imporant to ask for help when stuck and many people in the open source community are very helpful and welcoming.

#### What I wished I had learned

I wish I learned more about the code review process and what it is like to get feedback on a PR relating to code/how to deal with it. We mentioned Jira and Gerrit in class, but getting hands on experience with them would have been really interesting. 

#### If I could remove one thing from the course, what would it be?

I would remove one thing from the course, I would remove the classes about Git. I think that at this point in the major, everyone should have had at least some experience with Git and if not, a workshop with a tutor, TA, or the professor would be enough. I felt that we spent too much time learning about it.

#### If I could add one thing to the course, what would it be?

I would add one thing to this course, it would be more assignments like the course website assignment. This assignment was a good mirror for how the open source community acts. I feel like the only consistant homework we had was the weekly blog posts and the 20 contributions that spaned the entire semester. After the first round of submitting an issue/PR, the course website activity slowed dramatically.
