---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

### Open Source
Q: (what do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"? what are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source?)

  When I hear the term "open source" I think of software that is shared. I think of collaboration within a larger community on a project. I am able to see the code, know exactly what it is doing, and change it according to my needs. Some advantages of open source software include the free cost and the ability to modify an existing piece of code to fit specific needs. Bugs are usually found and fixed quickly because a large number of people are working on the software. Some potential problems are that open source software can be difficult to use/understand. There also may not be a lot of support for users since problems can be very specific and the team that originally created the software may be small. Finally, there is the possibility for malicious content to be hidden in the code since anyone can modify and distribute it.

### Projects
Q: list names of four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past; give brief descriptions for each, explain why you use it and what the alternatives might be (note, the projects do not have to be source code based)

* OpenCV - a library of programming functions written in C++ that focuses on computer vision. I used it in a computer vision course at NYU in order to implement edge detection in an image because it is the best open source library for computer vision and image processing as of now. Some alternatives to OpenCV are AForge.NET and VXL (Vision-something-Library).

* Jekyll - a static site generator written in Ruby. I used it to create my personal portfolio website along with GitHub Pages because it is simple and easy to use. Some alternatives to Jekyll are Ghost, Pelican, Hugo, and WordPress.

* PuTTY - a SSH and telnet client created by Simon Tatham. It also has a terminal emulator. I used it during an internship to login to the system. Some alternatives are SuperPutty, KiTTY, and PuTTY Tray. 

* MySQL - an open-source relational database management system. I used it as the database for some small coding projects because it is simple and easy to use. An alternative is PostgreSQL. 

### Questions for Tom
Q: come up with two (or more) questions that you would like to ask Tom Callaway from RedHat when he visits the class next week

  1. How does RedHat monetize open source software today? 

  2. What does that day-to-day of a RedHat developer look like?
