---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

### Open Source Project 

When I select an open source project to work on, I am looking for many things that show that there is a friendly and helpful community with active participation. It is important for there to be information about contributing and a code of conduct/ community norms/ community guidelines available. I also look for labels to indicate what issues are good for beginners, when the latest commit was, and for the fact that pull requests are reviewed. If it is a software project, I look for what programming language the project uses. Other things I look for are an OSI approved license and an installation guide.

To the team that I will be working on for the project, I am able to offer coding (Java, Python, JavaScript, C) and problem solving skills. I am also able to report issues, verify issues/fixes, work with git, and submit my own pull requests.

From working on an open source project I am hoping to learn more about coding with a large group of people, writing quality code up to par with the standards of the project, and working with git and GitHub. I also hope to learn about new and useful software/ how to take an open source project and customize it to my needs.

When I am thinking about and planning to work on an open source project, I am most worried about the possibility that there is a high skill cap for entry and that I would not be able to make any meaningful contribution. I also worry about not knowing where to start if it is a big project with a lot of components.

### Questions for Aurelia 

1. How did you get involved with Girl Develop It?

2. Can you tell me about your experiences working with humanitarian aid non-profits?

