---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

### Cathedral v. Bazaar

To describe the difference between software development following the cathedral model and software development following the bazaar model in the simplest terms, the cathedral model is a centralized, closed approach, whereas the bazaar model is a decentralized, open approach. In the cathedral model, a team of developers writes the entire program away from the eyes of the public and has a big release when it is completed, while in the bazaar model, software is released often, many different people are working on it, and bugs and features are added on a need/want basis depending on who is helping to write the program.

My preference as to which model I am most comfortable with would change based on the type of software. For most software, I prefer the bazaar model because there is less red tape and more freedom. There is also a good chance that bugs will be spotted and fixed faster because more people are contributing. The final product can also be more easily adjusted for the end user this way. I would prefer the cathedral model with software that deals with personal or sensitive data because anyone can work on open source code and make mistakes or malicious acts, but with the cathedral model, the company is accountable for the code and for the fact that the product does what it is supposed to do.

### Lessons

*8. "Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone".*

This lesson means that with enough people looking at a project, bugs will be found and fixed quickly because it will be as if the bugs are out in the open. It is also not just the fact that bugs will be fixed efficiently, but that usually, the person who finds and identifies the problem is different from the person who fixes it. Furthermore, different people have different ways of finding and solving problems, so with more people, the odds of having someone with the correct tools to find/solve a problem is greater.

*9. "Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around."*

Emphasis on smart data structures is more important than emphasis on smart code. For example, if one had only the correct data structure for a problem, the code would in most cases be very obvious to implement, but if one had only the code, the data structures may not be as obvious. It is crucial to completely understand the entire program that is being written and the data structures are at the foundation. It is extremely important to store and organize data in the correct way for a program to be scalable.
