---
layout: post
title: Week 7
---

### Open Data Week

Just in case some of you did not realized it, this weeks blog posts are supposed to be reports on the Open Data Week events that you attended. You should specify which event it was, what was discussed, what you learned, what you liked and disliked about it.

##### NYC Open Data Week @ NYU - Hosted by BUGS Open Source Club [link here](https://bugs-nyu.github.io/open-data/open_data_week.html)

**What was discussed**

During this event there was a panel discussion and a student project showcase. Dinorah Cantu-Pedraza, Dominic Mauro, and Vicky Steeves were member of the panel. They discussed the definition of Open Data, the pros and cons of Open Data, the history of Open Data, and how we as a society could use/improve it.

**What I learned**

I learned that Open Data is an ongoing process. It will be changed and corrected, and in order for it to be Open Data, people need to actually use it. I also learned about useful websites such as <http://odimpact.org/>.

**What I liked/disliked**

I liked that the audience also participated in the discussion at the end. I also enjoyed the question of "How do we know that Open Data is correct and not doctored". This was something that I have not given too much thought to before this event. Another aspect of the event that I liked was that all of the panelists were from different backgrounds. It was nice to hear about Open Data from people in professions not directly involved in software development.

**Photo** -  *See email*

##### Data Through Design [link here](http://datathroughdesign.com/index.html)

**What was discussed**

This event was an art exhibit that had pieces of art based on NYC Open Data. Art pieces ranged from "Slow Down" by Ellen Oh, which visualizes the locations of fatalities as a result of traffic accidents in NYC from 2010 - 2017 to "The Time Of Sexual Trama" by So Yeon Jeong and Ye Eun Jeong, which visualizes sexual assaults in NYC in 2016.

**What I learned**

I learned that Open Data can be accessible to people not heavily involved in the tech community. The way that Open Data is visualized has a large impact in how the data is processed and interpreted by the public.

**What I liked/disliked**

I liked the fact that Open Data was transformed into art and that the event space was cool. However, I felt that the event was a little sparce. It also did not offer much to someone who is very knowledgeable about both Open Data and tech.

**Photo** -  *See email*

### Contributions (nothing new this week)

**Wikipedia**

1. [Edit character page for Appa](<https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Appa_(character)&oldid=825221947>) 

My contribution was to add a link to the first occurrence of Aang’s name. I chose to add this link because Appa is Aang’s sky bison, so it is important to have their connection readily available in the article. 

**Course Website**

2. Report an issue - [Link to issue](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/42)

On the home page under Important Dates, the phrase should be "Midterm Exam (these dates may change if there are any schedule changes):", but on the website it was "Midterm Exam (these dates may change is there are any schedule changes):"

3. [Comment on an issue #41](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/41)
4. Create a pull request  - [Link to pull request](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/pull/72) for issue [#18](https://github.com/joannakl/cs480_s18/issues/18)
